{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13100\viewh12820\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 Advertising copywriter: job description\
Advertising copywriters work closely with other creative (visual) agency staff in the conception and production of the verbal and messaging elements of advertising campaigns.\
Advertising is the largest of the UK creative industries, and is worth approximately \'a317 billion.\
What does an advertising copywriter do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Copywriters are responsible for the linguistic content of adverts. They work across a range of media and formats, interpreting account briefs to compose advertorial content such as slogans, catchphrases, tweets and scripts for tv and/or radio adverts. Typical responsibilities include:\
\
interpreting account briefs\
researching clients, their competitors and the target audience\
producing original, clear and credible ideas/messages/scripts, and presenting these to clients and colleagues\
monitoring campaign effectiveness\
liaising with clients and colleagues, and meeting project teams to consider advertising requirements\
updating and amending campaigns according to feedback\
supervising junior staff\
writing reports.\
The advertising sector is notoriously fast-paced and copywriters in this industry need to unfazed by being creative to deadline. There is considerable contact with media planners and buyers and the in-house production department in order to develop advertising campaigns, and in many advertising agencies copywriters form part of the creative team, working almost directly alongside art directors responsible for the visual content of adverts.\
\
Promotion is normally into senior copywriting/creative positions, although career progression may necessitate moving agencies. The majority of vacancies are in London, although large agencies also operate in Manchester, Bristol, Leeds and Birmingham, and smaller agencies exist throughout the UK. Many copywriters also work freelance once they have gained some experience and built up a portfolio of work.\
\
Vacancies are advertised by recruitment agencies, in national newspapers and in publications such as Creative Review, Campaign, The Drum, Marketing, Media Week, and Marketing Week. Some agencies operate graduate recruitment schemes, for which early applications are advisable as there is intense competition for jobs. Some agencies offer internships and work experience placements, which can be an excellent way of getting experience and entering the industry.\
\
Typical employers of advertising copywriters\
Advertising agencies\
Media agencies\
Full service agencies\
Qualifications and training required\
Any degree subject is acceptable for entry into the profession. A qualification in English, journalism, copywriting, public relations, or literary/media studies can be helpful. Experience gained through internships and work experience placements can be useful when beginning to build a portfolio of work. Experience in a business-to-business (B2B) environment may be particularly useful. UK adverts are often subject to strict legal standards, so professional copywriters must continually update and maintain their familiarity with industry trends and standards.\
\
Key skills for advertising copywriters\
It is essential to have a good appreciation of what working within the advertising industry involves. A good portfolio of work should be prepared to demonstrate abilities to employers, who look for evidence of the following skills:\
\
excellent self-motivation\
adaptability\
commercial awareness\
ability to work well under pressure and meet deadlines\
good teamworking skills\
administrative and organisational skills\
IT proficiency\
proofreading\
attention to detail\
accuracy - both in terms of grammar and information - adverts must not be misleading\
creativity, and ability to produce innovative and original ideas.\
}