{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Animator: job description\
Animators use sequential images of drawings, puppets and models to produce films of varying length for use in commercials, computer games, pop music videos and websites.\
According to Skillset, the sector skills council for the creative arts, over 2,000 people work in animation in the UK.\
What does an animator do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
If you look beyond the self-employment route, organisations with vacancies include film production companies, major animation studios and computer games companies. Typical responsibilities of the job include:\
\
generating novel ideas\
working creatively to produce original and aesthetically pleasing designs/solutions\
problem solving\
using specialist computer generation software\
presenting designs to customers for evaluation\
promoting and running the business\
negotiating contracts\
liaising and working effectively with other design and production staff.\
Typical employers of animators\
websites\
computer games companies\
film studios\
marketing companies\
Over half of animators in the UK are self-employed, producing independent short films and gaining commissions from television/film production companies. Freelance can be the way to go, but it can take time and a lot of dedication to build up a reputation and get established.\
\
It is vital to be proactive when seeking opportunities as vacancies are rarely advertised, so speculative applications, including direct approaches to companies by telephone, are essential. A \'91showreel' of animated work that can be used to demonstrate abilities to potential employers should be produced. For details, look in industry-specific publications like Imagine Magazine.\
\
Qualifications and training required\
An HND/degree in a relevant subject such as film, television, photography, illustration, 3D/graphic design or computer/computer-aided engineering is normally required for entry into the profession. It is beneficial, if not essential, for your qualification to include elements of 2D design. A postgraduate qualification in animation may be advantageous.\
\
Key skills for animators\
aesthetic sense\
faithful storytelling\
positive attitude\
flexibility\
able to work under pressure and meet tight deadlines.}