{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Broadcasting presenter: job description\
Broadcast presenters provide the public voice or face to a wide range of broadcast television and radio shows with the purpose of offering entertainment and/or information.\
Presenters are generally self-employed on fixed-term contracts to deliver a set number of shows with a specified salary per show.\
What does a broadcasting presenter do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Broadcast presenters work for the BBC, national independent radio and television companies and local/regional radio stations. Opportunities also arise with independent television and radio production companies. Key responsibilities include:\
\
writing and rehearsing scripts;\
meeting with programme directors/producers to discuss programmes/shows;\
choosing and playing music;\
organising meetings, interviews and schedules;\
undertaking relevant background research;\
interviewing guests via the telephone or in person;\
presenting traffic, weather and/or news summaries;\
giving reviews of newly released books, films, music etc;\
providing programme links;\
operating technical equipment, such as radio \'91desks\'92.\
Most jobs occur in major cities such as London, Manchester, Birmingham and Leeds. Vacancies attract intense competition, with many receiving little or no advertising. Consequently candidates need stamina, enthusiasm, determination and perseverance to succeed. Opportunities are advertised via the internet, in newspapers, and specialist publications such as Television Today, The Stage, Radio Magazine, Media Week, Ariel and Broadcast Magazine. Networking, job shadowing, speculative applications and sector research are essential (directories including the Guardian Media Guide, and the Blue Book of British Broadcasting can provide useful contact information).\
\
Qualifications and training required\
A degree/HND is not essential, although qualifications in journalism, communication/media studies, music technology, performing arts, English, media performance etc. may be preferred. However, the ability to demonstrate a genuine interest in, knowledge of and/or experience of television/radio is necessary, and often more important than academic qualifications.\
\
It is essential to gain as much paid or unpaid work experience as possible \'96 this may be as a broadcast assistant, actor, producer, or news-gatherer, or via self-employment as a club/private disc jockey (DJ). Voluntary work for student newspapers/radio stations and local/hospital radio and television stations can be helpful.\
\
Key skills for broadcast presenters\
Employers seek confident and creative candidates who are adaptable, calm and able to work well under pressure. Good organisational, communication, team-working and problem-solving skills are also necessary.}