{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Camera operator: job description\
Camera operators physically control camera equipment both in studio and on location for film, television and video broadcasts and recordings.\
Most camera operators enter the profession as trainees, assistant camera operators or 'runners'.\
What does a camera operator do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Camera operators are employed by television and cable companies, within the film industry and by video production houses. They are responsible for operating a variety of technical equipment including single and multiple portable, remote-control and electronic cameras, cranes and mobile mountings. Other responsibilities include:\
\
assembling and setting up equipment; planning, preparing and rehearsing scenes;\
following camera scripts;\
creatively framing and capturing action;\
responding quickly to directions;\
liaising with lighting and technical staff;\
problem solving.\
The job can be physically tiring and demanding - often requiring travel between locations and long and irregular working hours.\
\
Most vacancies occur in major cities such as Leeds, Manchester, Birmingham and London. Opportunities are advertised via the internet, in newspapers, and specialist publications such as Audio Visual, Media Week and Broadcast Magazine. Networking, job shadowing and speculative applications are advisable (directories such as the BFI Film and Television Handbook and the Blue Book of British Broadcasting can provide useful contact information).\
\
Qualifications and training required\
Practical skills, enthusiasm and relevant experience are usually more important than qualifications, although a television, film, photography, media studies or performing arts degree may be helpful. It is important to be able to demonstrate a genuine interest in the work, backed up with evidence of theoretical competency and good technical abilities. Experience can be gained via hobby interests and/or amateur photography, film or video work.\
\
Key skills for camera operators\
Potential employees need plenty of stamina, should be physically fit, observant, capable of concentrating for long periods of time, and must have excellent hand-eye co-ordination, hearing and colour vision.}