{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Chiropractor: job description\
Chiropractors use a variety of physical techniques and therapies in the treatment and rehabilitation of patients who are suffering from disorders and/or injuries of the back or musculoskeletal system.\
During July 2001 UK legislation came into effect that protects the title 'chiropractor'.\
What does a chiropractor do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Chiropractors help clients to recover from disorders of the back or musculoskeletal system through the use of manipulation/supportive techniques, specialist equipment and physical exercise. They correct spinal problems/injuries by applying manual force and/or making adjustments with their hands or specialist equipment. Chiropractors often also take patients' general health, lifestyle and well being into consideration to provide more holistic treatments. Typical tasks include:\
\
undertaking patient consultations at home and within practices/clinics;\
gaining information from patients about previous medical history;\
making physical examinations;\
taking patients pulse, heart rate, blood pressure etc;\
organising for patients to have X-rays;\
diagnosing and treating disorders/ailments;\
assessing and planning treatment requirements;\
providing education and advice about lifestyle, exercise and movement;\
liaising with and making referrals to doctors/health care practitioners;\
keeping accurate confidential patient records;\
attending conferences;\
keeping up to date with developments in the profession.\
The majority of chiropractors are self-employed or work for private practices (such as specialist chiropractic clinics and complementary health clinics). Contract work may be available with some GP practices and National Health Service (NHS) Trusts. There are good prospects for qualified chiropractors to gain work, as it is a small profession with high demand.\
\
Qualifications and training required\
To qualify within the UK it is necessary to gain accreditation with the General Chiropractic Council (GCC) by completing an approved four to five year chiropractic degree course. There are currently three available undergraduate degree courses - information about these can be obtained from the GCC. Graduates from any subject can take a chiropractic degree, although it is usually necessary to possess a strong science background. Chiropractic degree courses are expensive and graduates are almost always self-funding. Previous relevant experience gained caring for/working with people via voluntary work, placements or through paid employment is not essential, but can be helpful.\
\
Key skills for chiropractors\
All candidates must be of good health and fitness, with excellent interpersonal and verbal/written communication skills.}