{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Database administrator: job description\
Database administrators are responsible for accurately and securely using, maintaining and developing computerised databases within a wide range of public and private sector organisations.\
The 1998 Data Protection Act was created to ensure that data controllers follow sound and proper practices; and to provide greater rights for people who have their details stored.\
What does a database administrator do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Any organisation that keeps information stored on computerised databases may employ a database administrator. Database administrators design, write and take care of computer database systems so that the right person can get the right information at the right time. They work with database software to find ways to store, organise and manage data. They identify user needs, set up computer databases and test systems ensuring that they perform as they should. Data integrity, backup, security and troubleshooting are critical parts of the database administrator's job. Responsibilities of the job vary according to employment sector, but typically comprise:\
\
keeping databases up to date;\
helping with database design and development;\
managing database access;\
designing maintenance procedures and putting them into operation;\
ensuring that databases meet user requirements;\
liaising with programmers, applications/operational staff, IT project managers and other technical staff;\
managing database security/integrity and backup procedures;\
implementing security measures;\
defining objectives through consultation with staff at all levels;\
writing reports, documentation and operating manuals;\
testing and modifying databases to ensure that they operate reliably;\
providing user training, support and feedback;\
writing disaster recovery plans;\
archiving data.\
This role can involve working to tight deadlines and when necessary, long hours. IT professionals working in this area may also be need to be available for call-out on evenings and weekends.\
\
Typical employers of database administrators\
Financial organisations\
IT companies\
Management consultancy firms\
Software houses\
Universities and academic institutions\
Hospitals\
Local authorities\
Central government\
Charities\
Any organisation that stores large amounts of information and data\
Data management and storage is a key focus for many business organisations. Vacancies are advertised by recruitment agencies, careers services, in newspapers and publications such as TARGETjobs IT & Technology,  and websites such as computing.co.uk and computerweekly.com.\
\
Qualifications and training required\
Any honours degree is acceptable for entry into the profession, although a qualification in a relevant subject such as operational research, mathematics, electronics, computer science/studies or software/computer engineering can be advantageous. For graduates without relevant qualifications and/or experience, a postgraduate computing/IT qualification is beneficial.\
\
Key skills for database administrators\
Candidates must be patient, meticulous and logical in their work and capable of prioritising tasks. Good problem solving, analytical, administrative, organisational, communication and interpersonal skills are also important.\
\
Familiarity with computer operating systems and database technology (design, software and structure) is essential. Technical expertise and previous computer industry work experience is often necessary.}