{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dentist: job description\
Dentists are medical healthcare professionals who focus specifically on the oral and dental hygiene of their patients.\
Even though membership is voluntary, there are around 23,000 members of the British Dental Association\
What do dentists do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
As a dentist, you will typically be examining the dental and oral hygiene of patients, and either offering the appropriate advice, or carrying out the appropriate surgeries. Other tasks may include:\
\
operating technical gear such as X-ray machines\
keeping an accurate record of a patient\'92s dental structure (which may need to be used to identify an individual)\
keeping up-to-date with developments in your field\
working with a medical nurse and a medical receptionist\
continuing training and specialising\
You may be required to work some overtime and weekend slots, but hours tend to be a lot more regular than those of medical doctors.\
\
Typical employers of dentists\
Dentists are typically employed by the NHS or by a private practice. Dentists working for the NHS earn a basic salary of between \'a337,714 and \'a380,674. NHS Dental consultants and earn a basic salary of between \'a374,504 and \'a3100,446 per year. Salaries for an associate dentist in a private practice can be anything between \'a330,000 and \'a3200,000 depending on location.\
\
Qualifications and training required\
In order to work as a dentist you will need to have a degree as a Batchelor of Dental Surgery (BDS). This is typically a five year course with high entry requirements, usually including one or two sciences. There are a few accelerated four-year courses for graduates who already have a 2.1 in subjects like chemistry or biology. Before you start work you will also be required to take a Clinical Aptitude Test (UKCAT).\
\
Key skills for Dentists\
communication\
patience\
a thorough and methodical approach\
ability to work long hours, often under pressure\
good ethical grounding\
team-working skills\
\
}