{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Doctor (general practitioner, GP): job description\
General practitioners provide confidential patient consultations and initial medical care within a community-based setting.\
The total amount of time spent studying and training to qualify as a general practitioner is normally eight years.\
What does a GP do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
General practitioners (GPs) are doctors employed by the National Health Service as independent contractors to work within local communities. Typical responsibilities include:\
\
patient consultations at home and within the surgery\
physical examinations\
diagnoses and treatment of illnesses/ailments\
minor surgery\
health education\
practice management and administration\
liaison with other health care professionals and/or hospitals.\
The job can be demanding but nevertheless rewarding and highly respected. Career advancement is possible via specialisation, hospital work, research or teaching.\
\
Publications advertising vacancies include General Practitioner, British Medical Journal and The Lancet.\
\
Qualification and training required\
Qualification as a GP is a lengthy process. Initially it is necessary to undertake a five year medical degree which is approved by the General Medical Council. This is followed by compulsory hospital and general practice based vocational training through the two-year Foundation Programme. Additionally, many doctors sit an examination to gain 'Membership of the Royal College of General Practitioners' (MRCGP). Subsequent professional updating, such as attending lectures, conferences and meetings is also a key feature of the job.\
\
Graduates from a non-medical background wishing to become a GP must follow the same route, but can take the shorter, but no-less-demanding graduate medical degree,for which they must possess a minimum 2.1 degree, preferably in a scientific subject. They must also have good academic references, be highly motivated, and possess appropriate personal characteristics such as perseverance and energy.\
\
Key skills for general practitioners\
ability to work long hours, often under pressure\
good practical skills\
ability to solve problems\
effective decision-making skills.}