{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red76\green76\blue76;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green140\blue212;
\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs72 \cf2 \cb3 Economist: job description\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\ql\qnatural

\fs48 \cf2 Economists use economic concepts, theories and analytical techniques to provide advice and practical information that will aid managerial planning and decision-making tasks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl720\ql\qnatural

\fs60 \cf4 The Government Economic Service (GES) is the UK's largest recruiter of economists, with over 1000 professionals in more than 30 departments and agencies.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa160\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf5 What does an economist do? {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://targetjobs.co.uk/careers-advice/job-descriptions/279409-economist-job-description#employers"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Typical employers}} |{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://targetjobs.co.uk/careers-advice/job-descriptions/279409-economist-job-description#training"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Qualifications and training}} | {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://targetjobs.co.uk/careers-advice/job-descriptions/279409-economist-job-description#skills"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Key skills}}\
Economists are employed by local and central government, economic consultancies, major companies, banks, financial institutions, utilities, higher education establishments and investment organisations. Responsibilities of the job include:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl420\sa100\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 {\listtext	\'95	}providing economic advice and recommendations\
{\listtext	\'95	}monitoring and forecasting UK and foreign economic performance\
{\listtext	\'95	}making presentations\
{\listtext	\'95	}analysing and interpreting complicated numerical and financial information\
{\listtext	\'95	}undertaking relevant research and writing reports.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf5 Presenting results that are easily understood in a diplomatic and persuasive manner is an important part of the work, ensuring that arguments and outcomes will be readily accepted. Promotional prospects are excellent for employees willing to take managerial positions or to change employer, and a formal career path exists within the Civil Service.\
Most jobs arise in London and other major towns and cities. Vacancies are advertised by careers services, in national newspapers, The Financial Times, The Economist, and The Business Economist. Networking, job shadowing and speculative applications are advisable.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf2 Qualifications and training required\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa160\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf5 A good degree (min. 2:1) in economics is usually the minimum academic requirement for entry into the profession; many employers also expect a relevant postgraduate qualification. All candidates must have a sound understanding of economic theory. As there is severe competition for vacancies, relevant experience gained via placements or vacation work can be advantageous, particularly where working in a business setting.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf2 Key skills for economists\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa160\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf5 Appropriate attributes such as self-confidence, commercial awareness, good interpersonal skills and the ability to cope with pressure are highly valued by employers. IT, time management, analytical and written/verbal communication skills are also important.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
}