{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Estate agent: job description\
Estate agents administer all aspects of property valuations, sales and rentals.\
A small number of employers operate graduate training schemes.\
What does an estate agent do? Typical employers | Qualifications and training | Key skills\
\
Estate agents are employed by estate/letting agencies, banks and building societies. Self-employment is an alternative option for experienced employees who are capable of starting a new business. A large proportion of the work involves liaison with clients and other organisations such as mortgage companies or firms of solicitors, so good verbal communication and telephone skills are essential. Other tasks include:\
\
property valuations;\
preparing sales brochures and promotional information;\
marketing properties;\
monitoring sales progress;\
managing rented properties;\
negotiating sales.\
The job regularly requires working beyond office hours to undertake property valuations and viewings. Poor starting salaries are often enhanced by bonuses and commission linked to sales success. There are reasonable promotional prospects with opportunities arising in managerial and specialist roles.\
\
There is moderate competition for vacancies. Jobs are advertised by recruitment agencies, or in local and national newspapers and relevant publications such as Property Week, Estate Agency News and Estates Gazette. Useful publications include TARGETjobs Property.\
\
Qualifications and training required\
A degree is not required for entry into the profession, but strong competition often makes relevant experience and/or qualifications necessary. A degree in an appropriate subject such as surveying, property, business studies, construction or architecture can be helpful. Work with the general public, or experience gained within sales or administration is usually beneficial.\
\
Key skills for estate agents\
Excellent communication, interpersonal and teamworking skills are essential. Most work is office-based, but property valuations necessitate local journeys so a full driving licence is normally required.\
\
\
}